Civil Code 1714.25.

(a)

Paragraph 1

Except for
  injury
  resulting from gross negligence or intentional misconduct
  in the preparation or handling of donated food,
no
  person,
  gleaner,
  or food facility
that donates food
that is fit for human consumption
  at the time it was donated
to a
  nonprofit charitable organization
  or food bank
shall be liable
for any damage or injury
resulting from the consumption of the donated food.

Food facilities may donate food
directly to end recipients
for consumption.

Paragraph 2

The immunity from civil liability
  provided by this subdivision
applies
regardless of compliance with
  any laws, regulations, or ordinances
  regulating the packaging or labeling of food,
and regardless of compliance with
  any laws, regulations, or ordinances
  regulating the storage or handling of the food
    by the donee
    after the donation of the food.

The donation of
nonperishable food
that is fit for human consumption
but that has exceeded the labeled shelf life date
  recommended by the manufacturer
is protected
  under the California Good Samaritan Food Donation Act.

The donation of
perishable food
that is fit for human consumption
but that has exceeded the labeled shelf life date
  recommended by the manufacturer
is protected under the California Good Samaritan Food Donation Act
if
  the person
    that distributes the food
      to the end recipient
    makes a good faith evaluation
      that the food to be donated
      is wholesome.

(b)

A
  nonprofit charitable organization
  or a food bank
that,
  in good faith,
  receives and distributes food
    without charge
  that is fit for human consumption
    at the time it was distributed
is not liable
  for an injury or death
  due to the food
unless
  the injury or death
  is a direct result
    of the gross negligence
    or intentional misconduct
    of the organization.

(c)

Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to limit
the ability of
a person, gleaner, or food facility
to donate food.

(d) For the purposes of this section:

(1) "Food bank" has the same meaning as defined in Section 113783 of the Health and Safety Code.

(2) "Food facility" has the same meaning as defined in Section 113789 of the Health and Safety Code.

(3) "Gleaner" means a person who harvests for free distribution to the needy, or for donation to a nonprofit organization for ultimate distribution to the needy, an agricultural crop that has been donated by the owner.

(4) "Nonprofit charitable organization" has the same meaning as defined in Section 113841 of the Health and Safety Code.

(5) "Person" means an individual, school, local educational agency as defined in Section 421 of the Education Code, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, organization, association, or governmental entity, including a retail grocer, wholesaler, hotel, motel, manufacturer, restaurant, caterer, farmer, and nonprofit food distributor or hospital. In the case of a corporation, partnership, organization, association, or governmental entity, the term includes an officer, director, partner, manager or managing member, deacon, trustee, council member, or other elected or appointed individual responsible for the governance of the entity.

(Amended by Stats. 2017, Ch. 619, Sec. 3. (AB 1219) Effective January 1, 2018.)
